# DISCONTINUATION OF PROJECT #
This project will no longer be maintained by Intel.
Intel has ceased development and contributions including, but not limited to, maintenance, bug fixes, new releases, or updates, to this project.
Intel no longer accepts patches to this project.
VPIC is a general purpose particle-in-cell simulation code for modeling kinetic plasmas in one, two, or three spatial dimensions. It employs a second-order, explicit, leapfrog algorithm to update charged particle positions and velocities in order to solve the relativistic kinetic equation for each species in the plasma, along with a full Maxwell description for the electric and magnetic fields evolved via a second- order finite-difference-time-domain (FDTD) solve. The VPIC code has been optimized for modern computing architectures and uses Message Passing Interface (MPI) calls for multi-node application as well as data parallelism using threads. VPIC employs a variety of short-vector, single-instruction-multiple-data (SIMD) intrinsics for high performance and has been designed so that the data structures align with cache boundaries. The current feature set for VPIC includes a flexible input deck format capable of treating a wide variety of problems. These include: the ability to treat electromagnetic materials (scalar and tensor dielectric, conductivity, and diamagnetic material properties); multiple emission models, including user-configurable models; arbitrary, user-configurable boundary conditions for particles and fields; user- definable simulation units; a suite of "standard" diagnostics, as well as user-configurable diagnostics; a Monte-Carlo treatment of collisional processes capable of treating binary and unary collisions and secondary particle generation; and, flexible checkpoint-restart semantics enabling VPIC checkpoint files to be read as input for subsequent simulations. VPIC has a native I/O format that interfaces with the high-performance visualization software Ensight and Paraview. While the common use cases for VPIC employ low-order particles on rectilinear meshes,. a framework exists to treat higher-order particles and curvilinear meshes, as well as more advanced field solvers
Sources: https://github.com/lanl/vpic
